---
layout : post
author : Manash
title : Monsoon Umbrellas
catrgories : [CSES]
math : true

---

## Problem Description

A palindrome is a string which reads the same forward and backwards, for example, $tacocat$ and          $mom$. A string is a  scatter-palindrome if its letters can be rearranged to form a palindrome. Given a string, determine how many of its  substrings are scatter-palindrome. A substring is a contiguous range of characters within the string.

For example, given a string $aabb$ the scatter-palindromes are $a,aa,aab,aabb,a,abb,b,,bb,b$.

there are 9 substrings that are scatter-palindromes.

Write a program that takes input in the below given format and prints output in the below given format.

​       Constraints 

-  $1≤*size of string*≤1000$

 The string contains lower-case alphabets. 

## Tutorial

This is also a variant of the standard DP problem of counting palindromes. The required condition of a string to be a palindrome or an anagram of a palindrome is that it should contain at most 1 odd occurrence of any character.

Also a string of length 1 is always a palindrome.

So with a naive approach we can check for every possible substring and check if it's a palindrome using the above approach. We can speed this up using dynamic programming, as the recurrence is also trivial.
$$
cnt[i][j][ch] = (s[i] == ch) + cnt[i+1][j][ch], \forall \; ch \in [a,z]
$$
Where $cnt[i][j][ch]$ represents the number of occurrences of character $ch$ in the range $i$ to $j$. 

Rest what is left to check the validity of the string, which can be done checking all the characters and counting the number of odd characters.

## Solution

```cpp
int n;
const int nax = 1001;
bool dp[nax][nax];
int cnt[nax][nax][26];
void test() {
      string s; cin >> s; n = sz(s);
      for( int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            dp[i][i] = 1;
            cnt[i][i][s[i]-'a'] = 1;
      }
      for( int len = 2; len <= n; len++) {
            for( int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
                  int j = i + len - 1;
                  if ( j >= n) break;
                  for( int ch = 0; ch < 26; ch++) {
                        cnt[i][j][ch] += cnt[i+1][j][ch];
                  }
                  cnt[i][j][s[i]-'a']++;
                  int odd = 0;
                  for( int ch = 0; ch < 26; ch++) {
                        if(cnt[i][j][ch]&1) {
                              if(++odd == 2 ) {
                                    dp[i][j] = 0;
                                    break;
                              }
                        }
                  }
                  if(odd < 2 ) dp[i][j] = 1;
            }
      }
      int ans = 0;
      for( int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            for( int j = 0; j <= i; j++) {
                  ans += dp[j][i];
            }
      }
      cout << ans;
}
```


## Problem Description

A monsoon is coming, and Mr. Anderson needs to buy umbrellas to cover a group of people. He goes to a store that stocks umbrellas in different sizes, each size able to cover a distinct number of people. The store has an unlimited supply of each size available.

Given a number of people needing shelter and a list of umbrellas sizes
determine the minimum number of umbrellas to purchase to cover all of the people and no more.

For example, if there are n=5
people and the store sells umbrellas that cover $p=[3,5]$ people, one umbrella can cover exactly 5 people.

If $n = 6$, use 2 umbrellas of size 3

If $n = 7$,
there is no combination of umbrellas that cover exactly the required number. In that case, the function should return −1

### Constraints
$1≤n,m,p[i]≤1000$

### Tutorial

This is a pretty standard Dynamic Programming question going by the name of The Coin Change Problem. This is just a variant of that problem.

Consider a 2D DP $dp[m][n]$ where $m$ represents the type of umbrella and $n$ represents the number of people we covered. 

Let's say we are at a given state $dp[i][j]$

For a given type of Umbrella ( i.e fixed $i$ ) and a given number of people (i.e fixed $j$). we have two choices
* #### Take it 
We can take it if it is possible to take it. And we covered exactly $arr[i]$ People, so our Problem reduces to $dp[i][j-arr[i]]$.
Therefore, $dp[i][j] = 1 + dp[i][j-arr[i]]$
* #### Leave it
In this case it's simply equal to the previous trasition.
$dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j]$

We will Take the Minimum of the two.

The base cases are that if there are 0 People, We need 0 Umbrellas to cover them.

### Solution

```cpp
const int inf = 1e9+7;
int n;
 
void test() {
 
      int m; cin >> m; vector<int> p(m);
      for( int &x : p ) cin >> x;
      cin >> n;
      vector<vector<int>> dp(m+1,vector<int>(n+1,inf));
      for( int i = 0; i <= m; i++) dp[i][0] = 0;
      for( int i = 1; i <= m; i++ ) {
            for( int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
                  dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j];
                  if ( j >= p[i-1]) {
                        dp[i][j] = min(dp[i][j],1+dp[i][j-p[i-1]]);
                  }
            }
      }
      int ans = dp[m][n];
      cout << ( ans == inf ? -1 : ans);
}
```


